README.adoc, before:

= @earshinov/extract-scss-variables
:nofooter:

image:https://travis-ci.com/earshinov/extract-scss-variables.svg?branch=develop[Build Status, link=https://travis-ci.com/earshinov/extract-scss-variables]
image:https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Coverage/6a8ecf0a9f5d4f3e8d7c7740285408db[Codacy Badge, link=https://www.codacy.com/app/earshinov/extract-scss-variables?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=earshinov/extract-scss-variables&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Coverage]
image:https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6a8ecf0a9f5d4f3e8d7c7740285408db[Codacy Badge, link=https://www.codacy.com/app/earshinov/extract-scss-variables?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=earshinov/extract-scss-variables&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade]
image:https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@earshinov/extract-scss-variables.svg[NPM Version, link=https://www.npmjs.com/package/@earshinov/extract-scss-variables]

Extract SCSS variables, functions and mixins into a separate file.

== Motivation

LESS provides http://lesscss.org/features/#import-atrules-feature-reference[reference imports] to only import things like variables and mixins from the given file without affecting the compiled CSS: `@import (reference) "foo.less"`.

In SCSS the same effect can be achieved by using https://github.com/sass/node-sass#importer--v200---experimental[node-sass custom importers] like https://github.com/maoberlehner/node-sass-magic-importer/tree/master/packages/node-sass-filter-importer[node-sass-filter-importer] with its `@import '[variables, mixins] from style.scss';`.

Even so, it seems hard to setup, especially if node-sass is being used as part of Webpack or @angular/cli build process.  In many cases you will find it more convenient to extract variables, functions etc. from the file you are interested in into a separate file and import that file normally.  That's what this little tool is for.

== Usage

- `yarn install --dev @earshinov/extract-scss-variables`
- `yarn run extract-scss-variables index.scss variables.scss`

The last command will extract variables, functions and mixins from `index.scss` and its imported files into `variables.scss`.

Example input:

.index.scss
[source,scss]
----
@mixin defaultFont() {
    font-family: Rubik;
    font-weight: normal;
}

@import './button';
----

.button.scss
[source,scss]
----
$buttonBackgroundColor: #e0e0e0;
$buttonColor: black;
$buttonBorderRadius: 4px;

button, input[type=button], input[type=submit] {
    @include defaultFont;
    appearance: none;
    background-color: $buttonBackgroundColor;
    color: $buttonColor;
    border-radius: $buttonBorderRadius;
}
----

Example output:

.index.scss:
[source,scss]
----
@import './variables';

@import './button';
----

.button.scss:
[source,scss]
----
@import './variables';

button, input[type=button], input[type=submit] {
    @include defaultFont;
    appearance: none;
    background-color: $buttonBackgroundColor;
    color: $buttonColor;
    border-radius: $buttonBorderRadius;
}
----

.variables.scss
[source,scss]
----
@mixin defaultFont() {
    font-family: Rubik;
    font-weight: normal;
}

$buttonBackgroundColor: #e0e0e0;
$buttonColor: black;
$buttonBorderRadius: 4px;
----

== Development

- To install dependencies and run commands, use https://yarnpkg.com/[Yarn] rather than `npm`
- To lint the code with https://eslint.org/[ESLint], run `yarn run lint`
- To test the code with https://jestjs.io/[Jest], run `yarn run test`
- To build NPM package, run `yarn run build`
- To publish NPM package, run `yarn run publish --access public`.  The code will be linted, tested and built automatically before publication.

== Useful Links

Inspired by

- https://github.com/maoberlehner/node-sass-magic-importer/tree/master/packages/node-sass-filter-importer[node-sass-filter-importer]
- https://github.com/maoberlehner/css-node-extract/[css-node-extract]

SCSS manipulation is implemented using https://postcss.org/[PostCSS]:

- http://api.postcss.org/[API documentation]
- https://astexplorer.net/[AST explorer] (In the top menu, select **CSS** and **postcss**.  In postcss options, select **scss** parser.)

Commit message:

(chore) Create a separate `publish` npm script to be used for project publication.  Update README.
The problem with the old approach with a `prepublish` script is that Yarn keeps running this script all the time (https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/3209)

README.adoc, after:

= @earshinov/extract-scss-variables
:nofooter:

image:https://travis-ci.com/earshinov/extract-scss-variables.svg?branch=develop[Build Status, link=https://travis-ci.com/earshinov/extract-scss-variables]
image:https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Coverage/6a8ecf0a9f5d4f3e8d7c7740285408db[Codacy Badge, link=https://www.codacy.com/app/earshinov/extract-scss-variables?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=earshinov/extract-scss-variables&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Coverage]
image:https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6a8ecf0a9f5d4f3e8d7c7740285408db[Codacy Badge, link=https://www.codacy.com/app/earshinov/extract-scss-variables?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=earshinov/extract-scss-variables&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade]
image:https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@earshinov/extract-scss-variables.svg[NPM Version, link=https://www.npmjs.com/package/@earshinov/extract-scss-variables]

Extract SCSS variables, functions and mixins into a separate file.

== Motivation

LESS provides http://lesscss.org/features/#import-atrules-feature-reference[reference imports] to only import things like variables and mixins from the given file without affecting the compiled CSS: `@import (reference) "foo.less"`.

In SCSS the same effect can be achieved by using https://github.com/sass/node-sass#importer--v200---experimental[node-sass custom importers] like https://github.com/maoberlehner/node-sass-magic-importer/tree/master/packages/node-sass-filter-importer[node-sass-filter-importer] with its `@import '[variables, mixins] from style.scss';`.

Even so, it seems hard to setup, especially if node-sass is being used as part of Webpack or @angular/cli build process.  In many cases you will find it more convenient to extract variables, functions etc. from the file you are interested in into a separate file and import that file normally.  That's what this little tool is for.

== Usage

- `yarn install --dev @earshinov/extract-scss-variables`
- `yarn run extract-scss-variables index.scss variables.scss`

The last command will extract variables, functions and mixins from `index.scss` and its imported files into `variables.scss`.

Example input:

.index.scss
[source,scss]
----
@mixin defaultFont() {
    font-family: Rubik;
    font-weight: normal;
}

@import './button';
----

.button.scss
[source,scss]
----
$buttonBackgroundColor: #e0e0e0;
$buttonColor: black;
$buttonBorderRadius: 4px;

button, input[type=button], input[type=submit] {
    @include defaultFont;
    appearance: none;
    background-color: $buttonBackgroundColor;
    color: $buttonColor;
    border-radius: $buttonBorderRadius;
}
----

Example output:

.index.scss:
[source,scss]
----
@import './variables';

@import './button';
----

.button.scss:
[source,scss]
----
@import './variables';

button, input[type=button], input[type=submit] {
    @include defaultFont;
    appearance: none;
    background-color: $buttonBackgroundColor;
    color: $buttonColor;
    border-radius: $buttonBorderRadius;
}
----

.variables.scss
[source,scss]
----
@mixin defaultFont() {
    font-family: Rubik;
    font-weight: normal;
}

$buttonBackgroundColor: #e0e0e0;
$buttonColor: black;
$buttonBorderRadius: 4px;
----

== Development

- To install dependencies and run commands, use https://yarnpkg.com/[Yarn] rather than `npm`
- To lint the code with https://eslint.org/[ESLint], run `yarn run lint`
- To test the code with https://jestjs.io/[Jest], run `yarn run test`
- To build NPM package, run `yarn run build`
- To publish NPM package, run `yarn run publish --access public`.  It is important to use `yarn *run* publish` instead of `yarn publish` to lint, test and build the code before publication.  If you are wondering why the `prepublish` script is not used for this purpose, https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/3209[here is the reason].

== Useful Links

Inspired by

- https://github.com/maoberlehner/node-sass-magic-importer/tree/master/packages/node-sass-filter-importer[node-sass-filter-importer]
- https://github.com/maoberlehner/css-node-extract/[css-node-extract]

SCSS manipulation is implemented using https://postcss.org/[PostCSS]:

- http://api.postcss.org/[API documentation]
- https://astexplorer.net/[AST explorer] (In the top menu, select **CSS** and **postcss**.  In postcss options, select **scss** parser.)
